SKY-2444 add exposures but no assignment help doc (#484)
Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center: docs/experiment/guides/troubleshooting/exposures-no-assignments.md

---
title: Exposures but no Assignments Chart
description: This guide walks through troubleshooting exposures but no assignments.
---

The Exposures but no Assignments chart appears in the **Monitor** tab and queries for the cumulative number of unique users who have performed an exposure event without a corresponding assignment event within each day. 

If you see a large number or percentage of users in the chart, be careful when interpreting the results of your experiment. Investigate what happens if someone gets exposed to the experiment that shouldn't: *Is the experience really bad?* *Can the user even see the experience?* *What does it mean if a user sees both experiments when they are mutually exclusive?* 

Exposure without assignment can affect future experiments, so you should investigate and fix the issue. 

!!!note

    This chart doesn't appear if you selected assignment event as the exposure event or if you are using [local evaluation](../../general/evaluation/local-evaluation.md). 

## Causes

A large number or high percentage of users who are in the Exposures but no Assignments chart could mean that:

- You are manually sending exposures for the wrong users.

> - You are mixing up your IDs. For example, for the assignment event you sent the user ID and for the exposure event you have sent the user ID as the device ID. Often, this shows up as certain users only having assignment events and no other events. Another reason that you may see a user having lots of assignment events in a row is if there are processes wake up the app without the user taking action for example push notifications. If the user is anonymous (doesn't have a user ID), you still need to send the device ID as the device ID. Don't send the device ID as the user ID. Remember that for an event to be ingested [you must send it with a user ID or a device ID](/../analytics/apis/http-v2-api/#device-ids-and-user-ids-minimum-length). 

Reviewer: > Another reason that you may see a user having lots of assignment events in a row is if there are processes wake up the app without the user taking action for example push notifications.

I think this should be a separate bullet point, since it doesnt relate directly to "You are mixing up your IDs"

- User property or identity changes:
    - Someone has multiple accounts on the same device and you call `fetch()` and then they sign out and sign in to another account and then you call `variant()`. It's important to re-call `fetch()` whenever there are changes to the user identity. 

>     - Someone's user property that you are targeting on changes within a session. Make sure you re-call `fetch()` otherwise you may target or not target correctly. Make sure you call `fetch()` before every `variant()` call. 

Reviewer: Does this item really relate to "Exposures but no Assignments" chart? I dont think this behavior should case an missed assignment.

Author: yeah let me remove this

## Problems with your Experiment

- Users may be exposed to the experiment when they don't meet the rule based targeting criteria. This happens because the rule based targeting is checked on the `fetch()` call.

> - Users may be exposed to both experiments even though the experiments are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer: I would chalk this whole section up to exposures sent for fallback variant values. E.g. if the fetch doesn't return a variant, so they default to control, and send an exposure for it.

Author: I will add that

---
title: Exposures but no Assignments Chart
description: This guide walks through troubleshooting exposures but no assignments.
---

The Exposures but no Assignments chart appears in the **Monitor** tab and queries for the cumulative number of unique users who have performed an exposure event without a corresponding assignment event within each day. 

If you see a large number or percentage of users in the chart, be careful when interpreting the results of your experiment. Investigate what happens if someone gets exposed to the experiment that shouldn't: *Is the experience really bad?* *Can the user even see the experience?* *What does it mean if a user sees both experiments when they are mutually exclusive?* 

Exposure without assignment can affect future experiments, so you should investigate and fix the issue. 

!!!note

    This chart doesn't appear if you selected assignment event as the exposure event or if you are using [local evaluation](../../general/evaluation/local-evaluation.md). 

## Causes

A large number or high percentage of users who are in the Exposures but no Assignments chart could mean that:

> - You are manually sending exposures for the wrong users.
> - You are mixing up your IDs. For example, for the assignment event you sent the user ID and for the exposure event you have sent the user ID as the device ID. Often, this shows up as certain users only having assignment events and no other events. If the user is anonymous (doesn't have a user ID), you still need to send the device ID as the device ID. Don't send the device ID as the user ID. Remember that for an event to be ingested [you must send it with a user ID or a device ID](/../analytics/apis/http-v2-api/#device-ids-and-user-ids-minimum-length). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identity mismatch between assignment and exposure.
    - User ID and device ID are incorrect, switched, or [missing](/../analytics/apis/http-v2-api/#device-ids-and-user-ids-minimum-length) on either assignment or exposure (e.g. sending the device ID as the user ID or visa versa).
- Account switching on the same device.
    - If real user has multiple accounts on the same device, and you don't call fetch on login/logout, the value accessed by `variant()` will trigger an exposure for the new user without an assignment event. It's important to re-call `fetch()` whenever there are changes to the user identity.
- Exposures for fallback variants.
    - If you are manually tracking exposure events, you should not track exposure events for fallback or default variant values. For example, if a user is not assigned a variant for an experiment, so you show the user control, the user should not have an exposure event tracked with the variant value control.
    
## Debugging

To debug exposure without assignment, open the chart in analytics and view user streams. Some common problems you may see are:
1. Users who only have assignment or exposure events. This is likely due to an identity mismatch between assignment (`fetch()`) and the exposure tracked through analytics.
2. User login followed by exposure events without an assignment event. This is likely due to account switching on the same device. Use user lookup using the device ID to see if there are multiple logged in users sharing the same device. 
```

> - Another reason that you may see a user having lots of assignment events in a row is if there are processes wake up the app without the user taking action for example push notifications.

Author: yeah i will just remove this

- User property or identity changes:
    - Someone has multiple accounts on the same device and you call `fetch()` and then they sign out and sign in to another account and then you call `variant()`. It's important to re-call `fetch()` whenever there are changes to the user identity. 

> ## Problems with your Experiment

Reviewer: What's the purpose of this section? Are these things that can happen as a result of exposure without assignment?

Author: yes

- Users may be exposed to the experiment when they don't meet the rule based targeting criteria. This happens because the rule based targeting is checked on the `fetch()` call.
- Users may be exposed to both experiments even though the experiments are mutually exclusive.
- Exposures are are sent for fallback variant values.

>     - If `fetch()` does not return a variant, and you default the user to control and send an exposure for it.

Reviewer: I'd move this into the causes section.
